# Todo Backend Project

This is a simple project I have created to learn more about Rest API and how full stack applications work. This project is not meant to represent a finished, production-ready project. I intentionally left some loose ends (which I will point out in Overall) because this project is meant for learning, not production.  

I haven't added some old classes that were created in the MVC way to the gitignore file because I don't want to compromise the visibility of the project as a whole. However, they are no longer reachable since I removed the default login page.
This project is developed using Eclipse, and I use Docker for the MySQL image. Postman is used to make api calls to test the server side logic. TodoBackEnd project also has a front end that was created with React.js (You can check it on my git repository called Todo Frontend.) TodoBackEnd project has a very simple structure:


- Todo Object
- Authentication

# Todo Object

The Todo object is very simple. It includes a description of the task, the deadline, a flag indicating whether it's completed, the name of the user and object's ID. The user name is stored so that each person sees their own todos. The Todo IDs are automatically generated by JPA and MySQL. All classes related to the Todo object are grouped in the 'todo' package, including the Rest Controller (TodoResource.java). Validations and repository actions for todos are implemented in TodoServiceImplementation.java.

# Authentication

Authentication involves multiple steps, making it a bit more complex. The user can either log in or register, and both actions are received in JwtAuthResource.java. When a user makes calls to the server, the server checks for a JWT token. Only login and register requests are allowed without a token, as specified in JwtSecurityConfiguration.java. When a user sends their credentials to the server during login or registration, and if the credentials are valid, they are provided with a token. You can inspect how the token is created in JwtService.java. For this project, I used a secret key, but in a real production environment, it would be wiser to choose a more secure approach, such as a key pair or another encryption process that is harder to decrypt. Every request from the user (except login and register) are checked for JWT token, and if the JWT token is valid, the request is handled and another JWT token is generated and returned to the user. You can check for details in JwtAuthenticationFilter.java. I enabled CORS to allow the React application to send requests from a web browser.

I created my own user class that implements UserDetails, and you can inspect its details in the 'user' package. Validations for user accounts are handled in UserServiceImp.java.  

# Overall

- I set up a second database for integration tests, which is hosted on the same MySQL image as the main application. For the API call tests, I removed filters. I didn't create tests for all cases as it wasn't really necessary in this project. Instead, I established an integration test class and an API test class, adding basic tests to cover basic scenarios.  

- I created a class for aspect-oriented programming inside the 'aspect' package. While not essential for this project, I decided to include it as a learning exercise.  

- I throw a lot of exceptions if a validation fails, but I did not return them to inform the user. I am not sure about the right approach here so I left it as it is, and front end application has a general "something went wrong" type of catch.    

If you're interested in exploring a project that involves objects with relations, a more complex setup with Data objects and Thymeleaf, you can check out my 'Spring5-recipe-app' on my repository. 
